
1
C
I'll tell you about the Depression. Now, before we start, I gotta say this:
You may think you're so smart and that you can just correct me whenever you want
by pressing [C], but you're wrong! I may be a patient man, but I do have my limits.
If you try to correct me more than 3 times when I'm right, we're done!

2
C
But enough of that! Let's get started. So as an overview, I'll say that the Great
Depression began in 1929, and ended around 1939. The event that marked the
beginning of the Depression was the stock market crash. A crash happens when
all of the stocks on the market suddenly become worthless!

3
I
So why did they become worthless? Well, you see, aliens came down and took over
some the investor's bodies and made them sign over their stocks for the lowest
possible price, causing both the supply and demand to go down significantly. That's
probably what happened. I think.
1. WHAT?? Aliens, Grandpa? Really?
2.  Everyone knows it was fish people.
3.  Aliens are too dumb to mess up OUR economics!
4.  Maybe it WAS aliens...
Eh? What? Right, that might have just been in that one movie...
Fine! So what really happened is that the stocks became worth more than what
investors were willing to pay. Once the investors stopped buying into the stocks,
however, they plummetted in price, and the investors lost a lot of money!

4
C
Oh? What's that? You don't know what the stock market is? Well shoot. So basically,
it's this system of buying parts of a company to help fund it, and when the company
makes money, the stocks become worth more, making you (the investor) money! This 
makes you money, and helps companies get the funds they need!

5
C
Right, so now you know. Now when the market crashes, the companies whose stocks 
were in the market lose a lot of money as well. This meant that all these companies 
who had been booming were suddenly out of money, and many of them had to shut 
down all production, meaning that manufactured goods became very expensive.

6
I
So with all these manufactured goods becoming so expensive, this meant that
people coundn't buy their flat-screen TVs anymore! And without them, everyone
got behind on their sitcoms, news, and telenovellas!! It was awful! All the actors
got fired and then started rioting in the streets, I tell you!
1. Grandpa... flat-screens weren't invented yet...
2. Actors don't get fired! It's a very solid profession...
3.  TVs are always expensive, I'm sure it was fine.
4.  Gee, I might have heard about that somewhere before...
WELL. Aren't you just a little historian? Fine, fine. Well I was right about one thing.
Everything got really expensive for a while. And since people were losing jobs 
as a result of the businesses closing, people weren't buying anything anyways,
which only made the businesses do worse!

7
C
Because people were so scared that they stopped spending money, even when the
market recovered slightly, the lack of income made the recovery pointless. 
The market ended up remaining low because businesses and manufacturers 
couldn't get people's faith in them back so easily.

8
C
That was when the bank runs began. The banks had also been failing as a result of 
overall drop in the economy, and when people realized that their banks might close,
they panicked. They all tried to go to the banks and withdraw all their money. But
the problem is that banks don't actually keep all of their money at once!

9
C
Banks usually loan out the money they are storing for people, and when too many
come in and withdraw, the banks run out, and go "bankrupt". This was happening 
to nearly all of the banks in the country, and the fact that all of the banks were
closing caused the economic issues to only become worse.

10
C
Too make matters worse, there had been a food shortage for a while before this 
all began! The reason there was a food shortage was a drought that had been
happening in the midwestern US since the 20s, also known as the "Dust Bowl". 
The farmers were so poor now that they couldn't afford to harvest their crops!

11
C
So while all this was happening, our president at the time, President Hoover, was
trying to let the problem sort itself out. He beleived that left to themselves,
people would find the answers and recover. This view was very unpopular amongst
the common people, and when the next election was up, he lost in a landslide.

12
I
After Hoover left the presidency, he was replaced by my favorite president,
President Theodore Roosevelt! Good ol' Teddy whipped everybody up into fine 
shape. He walked right into the Wall Street Stock Exchange and beat the poo
out of all of those money-grubbing fools! Bully!
1. Grandpa! Calm down! It was Franklin D. Roosevelt anyway.
2. I hear Stock Brokers are pretty tough, Gramps...
3. Gramps, we elected Truman next!
4. Yeah! Take that Stock Brokers!!
You just really like to take the joy out of old age, huh? Well, incidentally, you're
right. After Hoover, we elected Franklin Delano Roosevelt, or FDR. It's an easy
mistake to make with the same last name, and they are related! They were 5th
cousins, so it IS pretty distant, but hey, I'm old.

13
C
So one of the first things FDR did when he started his term was to try and raise
the overall morale of Americans. He did this by doing radio programs, called
 "Fireside Chats". In these chats, he encouraged Americans and urged them to
keep their work ethic up. These chats did a lot of good for the common people.

14
I
But that was just talk! He also had to do some real work! FDR had to do a lot of work
during his time in order to help the American people pick themselves up. He created a 
program called the "Square Deal", which first introduced paper money into circulation
(which is why it was called the Square Deal!). The paper was much cheaper to make!
1. It was called the New Deal! Also, paper money is way older than that!
2. That wasn't why it was called the square deal! 
3. All FDR did was talk, no work at all!
4. Man, that sure is a SQUARE name for a program! 
Boy, if you knew everything why in the world are you askin' me anyhow?? And you're
right, by the way. It WAS called the New Deal and it was FDR's plan to get Americans to 
work building infrastructure for the USA while getting paid for it. It got companies 
back to work and it helped improve the country.

15
C
The New Deal didn't just get people back to work, either. It started with something 
called the "Bank Holiday" which was a period of three days where the remaining 
banks shut down in order to regroup and for the government to come up with a plan
to keep them open. They gave them loans and set up rules to prevent problems!

16
C
Now, this part is a little sad. One of the main contributors to the US pulling out of
it's economic slump was actually World War 2! When the war was only taking place in 
Europe, we were a major provider of materials to the Allies, stimulating our economy,
and when we went to war, our economy got even better. Sad it had to be that.

17
I
Well after that, we need some good news! The good news is that not only is the
Depression long over, it only affected us! Yup! We may have had a hard time of it,
but at least we didn't ruin anyone else's lives in the process. The rest of the 
world had it real easy while worked on improving ourselves. Totally.
1. Sorry Grandpa... but... the Depression was worldwide...
2. A few other countries were affected too!
3. Wow, Gramps, thats really noble of you!
4. Boy, thats a load off of my chest!
...Why...? It was already sad enough and now its just terrible... sniff... sniff...
Yes, the Great Depression caused trouble for almost everyone in the world, and is
part of what led Nazi Germany to rise up in the first place! Good gravy, boy do you 
have no heart at all?






